GUIDELINES FOR CONNECTING TO THE RED ECLIPSE MASTER SERVER

The Red Eclipse Team provides the play.redeclipse.net master server for the
benefit of the Red Eclipse Community. We impose a general set of guidelines
for any server/user which connects to the play.redeclipse.net master server.
The team reserves the right to block any attempt to connect to the master
server at their discretion. Access to services provided by the project are
considered to be a privilege, not a right.

These guidelines are imposed to ensure the integrity of both the Red Eclipse
game, and its community. If you do not agree to these terms, you should not
connect to the play.redeclipse.net master server, or any servers which are
connected to it. These guidelines are not designed to limit your opinion or
freedoms granted to you by the open source licenses employed by the project,
nor do they cover usage of the game in either offline play or on servers
which are not connected to the Red Eclipse master. If you don't agree to
these terms you are still able to run the game without the use of the master
server.

If you have questions or comments regarding these guidelines please contact
the Red Eclipse Team. Any person seeking to modify their game or server for
use on the master server should first seek permission from the Red Eclipse
Team, each modification must be approved and will be done on a case-by-case
basis. It is advised you create a topic in the "General Discussion" section
of the Red Eclipse forums located at https://redeclipse.net/forum

== Guidelines for Servers ==

(See RE Mark Policy for definitions of "substantially (un)modified")

* The gameplay of the server must not grant an unfavorable advantage or
  disservice to any party.
  - "Humans vs Zombies" is fine, as long as it rotates roles in a fair manner.
  - Giving one player double the health of other players permanently is not
    permitted.
  - Game variables may not be set in such a way that makes it impossible to
    avoid harming yourself or teammates (i.e. no suicide weapons).

* If the gameplay of the server is modified substantially this must be
  indicated clearly, preferably through the use of "servermotd".
  - If you wish to disable one or more weapons on the server, use the
    "sv_<weapon>disabled" variable. Letting players wield a
    weapon, but changing variables so that weapon doesn't actually work (such
    as by setting its damage output to 0), is not allowed.

* If the source code of the server is modified substantially you must contact
  the Red Eclipse Team to check that the changes are permitted by creating a
  a topic in the "General Discussion" section of the Red Eclipse forums located
  at https://redeclipse.net/forum

* The server must honour the "auth" system, allowing global bans and granting
  the correct access by the Red Eclipse Team, or moderators assigned by them.

* The server must not advertise or otherwise spam messages excessively.

* The server must not have a name that is offensive or send any messages that
  could be interpreted as offensive.
  - Offensive language covers things such as bigotry (racist, religious, or
    sexually derogatory [gender or orientation] remarks)

* The owner of a server may outline their own rules, specific to their server.
  - These rules may not revoke any part of this document.
  - These rules must not make any unreasonable or illegal demands.

* Failure to follow these guidelines may result in the immediate ban and
  removal of the server in question from listing on the master server, without
  warning.

== Guidelines for Users ==

* Players must behave in a manner that is not disruptive to the game.
  - Cussing is fine, so long as it doesn't involve bigotry (racist, religious,
    or sexually derogatory [gender or orientation] remarks), unless a server is
    designated as "family friendly" and provides a clear definition of what
    kind of language is not permitted.
  - Intentionally killing team mates or scoring for an opposing team is not
    permitted. This includes "kamikaze" tactics that result in negative scores.
  - Cheating, flooding and/or spamming is not permitted. This includes sending
    too many messages or being excessively abusive via in-game communication
    over a short amount of time.

* The owner of a server may outline their own rules, specific to their server.
  - Players on a server with additional rules must follow said rules unless the
    demands are unreasonable, illegal, or revoke part of this document.
  - If any part of the rules supplied by a server violate this document, then
    all rules supplied by the server are considered to be null and void.

* Failure to adhere to a request by a moderator to follow the rules can result
  in an immediate mute, kick, and/or ban, without warning, possibly from the
  master server and all Red Eclipse servers listed on it. It is important to
  note that moderators are considered to be official representatives of the
  Red Eclipse community and should be treated with respect when performing
  their duties.

* If a player believes that the behaviour of any moderator is not supported by
  this document it is advised that the player lodges an official complaint in
  the "General Discussion" section of the Red Eclipse forums located at
  https://redeclipse.net/forum - Note that arguing with moderators or being
  otherwise antagonistic via in-game communication is not allowed.

== Guidelines for Moderators ==

* Moderators must act in a fair and impartial manner, employing the "warn, then
  kick, then ban" approach, unless there is an emergency or immediate need. It
  is important to remember moderators are considered to be official
  representatives of the Red Eclipse community and they should approach each
  situation in a professional manner.

* The use of mute, kick, and/or ban should only be used when a user violates
  sections of this document. If in doubt, moderators should seek the advice of
  their peers (other players and/or moderators) before proceeding with
  disciplinary action. A moderator may mute, kick, and/or ban for other reasons
  if there is due cause to do so, but may not use it as a way to silence a
  player who is simply being offensive without violating this document.

* If a moderator believes that any player behaviour not covered by this
  document should result in disciplinary action, they should create a topic in
  the "General Discussion" section of the Red Eclipse forums located at
  https://redeclipse.net/forum - Note that arguing or being otherwise
  antagonistic with players is not advised.

* Failure by a moderator to follow or uphold the rules may result in their
  access being immediately revoked, without warning.

== Attribution ==

This text is Copyright (C) 2011-2017, the Red Eclipse Team
and is available under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
License <http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/>
