.TH CUBE2FONT 1 2012-07-16 "cube2font 1.3" "cube2font Manual"
.SH NAME
cube2font \- Utility program designed to create font bitmaps for Cube Engine games
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.B cube2font
.I infile outfile
.IR outborder [: inborder ]
.I pad offset advance charwidth charheight texwidth texheight
.RI [ spacewidth
.I spaceheight
.IR texdir]
.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
cube2font is a utility program designed to create font bitmaps for Cube Engine games, it works by taking a Truetype font and building it into a set of coordinates in an image. cube2font is an improved version of the previous TTF2Font, supporting a much larger range of characters.
.PP
The program outputs one or more PNG images containing a grid of characters, so-called "texes", and an accompanying config file in plaintext, which lists the character coordinates in the images.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I infile
.br
Path to input file in truetype format.
.TP
.I outfile
Sets the font name in the config file, and is also used as an output filename template: A number and the .png extension will be appended to the texes, and a .cfg extension to the coordinate file.
.TP
.I outborder
.br
Size of black outside border around each character on the texes.
.TP
.I inborder
.br
Size of black border between the elements inside each character.
.TP
.I pad
.br
Added padding around characters on the texes, to prevent them "bleeding" into neighbouring characters.
.TP
.I offset
.br
Added spacing to the left of each character when they are rendered ingame. If exaggerated it would look something like this:
.br
.IP
|   A|   B|
.TP
.I advance
.br
Added spacing to the right of each character when they are rendered ingame. If exaggerated it would look something like this:
.br
.IP
|A   |B   |
.TP
.I charwidth
.br
Width of generated characters on the texes.
.TP
.I charheight
.br
Height of generated characters on the texes.
.TP
.I texwidth
.br
Width of generated texes.
.TP
.I texheight
.br
Height of generated texes.
.TP
.I spacewidth
.br
Width of the standard space character size when rendered ingame, defaults to a third of
.I spaceheight
if omitted or set to 0.
.TP
.I spaceheight
.br
Height of the vertical character separation when rendered ingame, defaults to the maximum vertical character range if omitted or set to 0. This value is normally larger than
.IR charheight ,
since it takes into account characters extending outside the 'em' box. This value will make the rendered characters scale to fit.
.TP
.I texdir
.br
Sets the font directory path in the config file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.B cube2font Play-Bold.ttf play 4 15 1 1 54 54 512 512 0 0 fonts/
.fi
.RS 4
Generates a font named
.B play
with a 4 pixel black border, an additional 15 pixels of space around characters, one pixel of extra spacing at both sides when displayed ingame, a character size of 54x54 pixels, a tex size of 512x512 pixels, a 23 pixels wide standard space character, a 71 pixels high standard vertical line separation, and the font path set as
.B fonts/
.PP
This would normally generate the files
.br
.B play.cfg
.br
.B play0.png
.br
.B play1.png
.br
.B play2.png
.PP
The above values are used for the base font.
.RE
.PP
.nf
.B cube2font default.ttf default 3 19 1 1 49 49 512 512 32 64 packages/fonts/
.fi
.RS 4
This generates the default font for the cube2 game Sauerbraten.
.SH AUTHORS
cube2font was created by Lee "eihrul" Salzman.
.PP
This manual page was written by Martin Erik Werner
.br
<martinerikwerner@gmail.com>
